---
layout: post
title:  "Deep Work"
author: juhi
categories: [ books ]
image: assets/images/deep_work.jpg
---

This is the third Cal Newport book I've read. I respect Cal as a writer and have enjoyed all of his books, but Deep Work has been the most useful to me by far. The two other books * Digital minimalism, and So Good They Can't Ignore You harped at topics similar to what Deep Work is talking about, but Deep Work hits the nail at its head
I think I'm pretty decent at being a digital minimalist, and I deactivated my Instagram a while ago, I log on Facebook for less than 20 minutes per week, and my Digital Wellbeing dashboard clocks less than 30 minutes per day spent on phone. So I have that going for me.

But what am I supposed to do with all the time I'm saving being a digital minimalist? 

In Deep Work, the author posits that all great work * works of art, philosophy, sciences, required that the person let go of all distractions, so they could divert all their attention to the one task at hand. This, and only this is the way of producing something that can be valuable to you as a human being and to the world.


Here are some of my notes from the book.
***

> Deep Work: Professional activities performed in a state of distraction*free concentration that push your cognitive capabilities to their limit. These efforts create new value, improve your skill, and are hard to replicate.

Shallow Work: Non*cognitively demanding, logistical*style tasks, often performed while distracted. These efforts tend to not create much new value in the world and are easy to replicate.

*   Spending enough time in a state of frenetic shallowness can permanently reduce your capacity to perform deep work.

*   Network tools are distracting us from work that requires unbroken concentration

Deep work hypothesis: The ability to work deeply is becoming increasingly rare at exactly the same time it is becoming increasingly valuable in our economy. As a consequence, the few who cultivate this skill, and then make it the core of their working life, will thrive

#### Deep Work is Valuable

This is the era of the great restructuring * Our technologies are racing ahead. 

What are the kind of people that will thrive in this economy? 

*   The high skilled workers

  *   Workers who help in automating low*skilled positions

  *   Those with the oracular ability to work with and tease valuable results out of increasingly complex machines

  *   Be good at working with intelligent machines

*   The superstars

  *   Talent is not a commodity that you can buy in bulk and combine to reach the needed levels * There's a premium to being the best

*   The owners

  *   Those with the capital to invest in new technologies that are driving the Great Restructuring

How to become a winner in the new economy? Two core abilities for thriving in the new economy

*   The ability to quickly master hard things

  *   And you must be able to do it quickly, again and again

*   The ability to produce at an elite level, in terms of both quality and speed

  *   Mastering the skill, and then transforming that latest potential into tangible results that people value

From the Intellectual Life:

> Mean of genius themselves were gerat only by bringing all their power to bear on the point on which they had decided to show their full measure

Myelination

*   Skills are essentially brain signals. You get better at a skill as you develop more myelin around the relevant neurons, allowing the corresponding circuit to fire more effortlessly and effectively. To be great at something is to be well myelinated.

High*Quality Work Produced = Time Spent * Intensity of Focus

#### Deep Work is Rare

*   Atlantic Media was paying well over a million dollars to process emails

#### Deep Work is Meaningful

*   We tend to place a lot of emphasis on our circumstances, assuming what happened to us determines who we feel. Our brain instead constructs our worldview based on what we pay attention to. If you focus on a bad thing, then that would be time consuming. Who you are, what you think, feel, and do, what you love * is the sum of what you focus on.

*   The enlightenment dilemma by Drefus and Kelly

  *   Craftsmanship: The meaning uncovered by such efforts is due to the skill and apreciationtion inherent in craftsmanship * not the outcomes of their work. 

  *   You don't need a rarified job; you need instead a rarified approach to work

#### Rule #1: Work Deeply

*   The monastic philosophy of deep work

  *   Maximize deep efforts by eliminating or radically minimizing shallow obligations

*   The bimodal philosophy of deep work scheduling

  *   Divide your time dedicating some clearly defined stretches to deep pursuits and leaving the rest open to everything else

  *   During the deep time, the bimodal worker will act monastically * seeking intense and uninterrupted concentration

*   The rhythmic philosophy of deep work scheduling

  *   Transform deep work time into a regular habit

*   The journalistic philosophy of deep work scheduling

  *   Produce whenever you can, whatever you can

*   The ritual:

  *   Decide where you'll work and for how long

  *   How you'll work once you start to work

  *   How you'll support your work

Disciplines

  *   Focus on the wildly important

  *   Act on the lead measures

  *   Lead measure
    *   Time spent in a state of deep work dedicated toward your wildly important goal

*   Keep a compelling scoreboard

*   Create a cadence of accountability

#### Rule #2: Embrace Boredom

#### Rule #3: Quit Social Media

#### Rule #4: Drain the Shallows
