---
layout: post
title:  "Lean In: Women, Work, and the Will to Lead"
author: juhi
categories: [ outdoors, books, excerpts, business, feminism, self-help]
image: assets/images/lean_in.jpg
featured: true
---

[Lean In](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16071764-lean-in) is the first book that I recommend to people who want to understand a thing or bit about feminism.


# Excerpt


#### Chapters



*   Internalizing the Revolution
*   The Leadership Ambition Gap: What Would You Do if You Weren’t Afraid?
*   Sit at the Table
*   Success and Likeability
*   It’s a Jungle Gym, Not a Ladder
*   Are You My Mentor?
*   Seek and Speak Your Truth
*   Don’t Leave Before You Leave
*   Make Your Partner a Real Partner
*   The Myth of Doing It All
*   Let’s Start Talking About It
*   Equality


#### Notes



*   A lot of times you are unaware of the problems of other people unless it happens to you. But when it does, it is your responsibility to champion the cause.
*   Women’s voices need to be heard when making the decisions that affect the entire world
*   In 1970, American women were paid 59 cents for every dollar that a man earned. By 2010, they’d protested, and worked their butts off to make 77 cents on the dollar. Forty years and eighteen cents. A dozen eggs have gone up more than 10 times in that time.
*   Law of economics and many studies of diversity say that our collective pool of talent and resources would improve
*   Find a mentor and sponsor
*   Men are promoted based on potential and women are promoted based on past accomplishments
*   Getting rid of these internal barriers 
*   Be ambitious in pursuit
*   Internalize the revolution
*   Career progression involves taking risks and advocating for yourself - something girls are discouraged from doing
*   Leadership ambition gap
*   Hard charging women somehow violate unwritten rules of social conduct
*   We no longer have to hunt, so our desire for leadership is a culturally developed and reinforced trait
*   We all internalize social cues into what we think is appropriate
*   You are the hope and the promise of the more equal world. 
*   Jjj 25
*   Fake it till you feel it
*   Men are impatient about their own development and think they were capable of doing more
*   It is hard to visualize someone as a leader if he or she constantly needs to be told what to do.
*   Learn to keep your hand up
*   Our entrenched cultural ideas associate men with leadership qualities and women with nurturing qualities and put women in a double blind
*   If a woman is nice, she is considered more nice than competent.
*   Share your success -- Host such an event in Coursera
*   How to negotiate? I don’t know man
*   Look at children, cry at one moment and jump on to play the next
*   You have to achieve a critical mass or the tipping point before the grumbling dies down
*   Confront your own power and feel more comfortable with it

It’s a jungle gym, not a ladder



*   What is your biggest problem, and how can I solve it?
*   Careers don’t need to be mapped out from the start
*   Have a long term dream and an eighteen month plan
*   Pursue a meaningful life
*   The most metaphor for careers is a ladder, but this concept no longer applies. The average American has eleven jobs from ages of 18 to 46 alone. This means that the days of joining an organization or corporation and staying there to climb that one ladder are long gone. Careers are jungle gym, not a ladder, because ladders are limiting, you can only move up and down. There is only one top. Now, you can forge your own unique path, and get great views for many people, not just those at the top;
*   It is okay to have a rough idea of what you wanted to do, not necessarily what you wanted to be.
*   Go for fast growth. When companies grow quickly, there are more things to do than there are people to do them. If you are offered a seat on a rocket ship, you don’t ask what seat.
*   Sometimes people miss out by focussing on career levels
*   Women tended to move up internally than make the switch in an external place.
*   The most common way in which people give up their power is by thinking they don’t have any.
*   Whoever has the power takes over the noun - the less powerful gets the adjective
*   Bringing up gender equality topics is a sensitive issue - People can talk about their sex life, but not about gender
*   New examples of bias all over - same resume, but still the woman was rated slightly less than the man. If the man has a better educational qualification, educational qualification seemed more important for the job. The reverse was true for females. “Merit” was manipulated to justify discrimination
