---
layout: post
title:  "Book Summary and Review : The 5AM Club"
author: juhi
categories: [ Book Summaries and Reviews]
image: assets/images/the_5am_club.jpeg

---

> A bad day for the ego is a good day for the soul.



##### Premise

The [5AM Club: Own Your Morning, Elevate Your Life](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37502596-the-5-am-club) is an inspirational, self-help book written as a fictional account. The author, Robin Sharma, uses different fictional characters to extol the virtue of rising up early and making the best use of your morning. He argues that having a good early morning routine helps set a powerful tone to the rest of your day, leading to a happy, fulfilling, and successful life.


##### About the author

[Robin Sharma](https://www.robinsharma.com/) is a bestselling author of many inspirational, self-help books. He is best known for his book [The Monk Who Sold His Ferrari](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43877.The_Monk_Who_Sold_His_Ferrari).


##### The Big Ideas



*   Trying to make the most out of your life starts by trying to make the most out of your day, and by extension, your morning hours. 
*   The core teaching is the 20/20/20 routine, the framework for a productive morning. In this, the person spends the first 20 minutes after waking up doing a physical activity. After this, the person spends 20 minutes in meditation and self-reflection, and the next 20 minutes listening to inspiring podcasts or reading a motivational book.
*   Cardiovascular exercises help reduce cortisol, which interferes with clear thinking and overall performance. Reflecting on your personal values, and how your behavior should reflect those values and change the world for the better helps you start the day on the right footing. Listening or reading motivational content gives you consistent encouragement to outperform yourself on a daily basis.
*   This routine should be done everyday for 66 days, after which it becomes automatic and habitual. In the first one-third of these days, the old habits are destroyed. In the next period, the brain rewires itself and installs new habits. In the last one-third, the rewired brain integrates the new changes and it becomes a new habit.


##### Summary



*   Personal mastery is dependant upon your ability to detach from societal ideas about proper living.
*   World-class leaders, thinkers, and artists share a daily habit of rising early to maximize their potential
*   Small, incremental improvements lead to incredible results over time.
*   Core behavioral changes have a ripple effect on other areas of life.
*   Enduring discomfort is an essential part of change.
*   Continuing to push yourself out of your comfort zone, even after your life begins to change for the better, is an essential component of achieving greatness.
*   Healthy sleep habits boost peak performance.
*   A hero lives inside each and every person.


##### In My Humble Opinion

I wouldn’t recommend this book to people. The summary above adequately covers what the book says in over 300 pages.


##### Highlights

The book is very energizing, and has a lot of helpful tips for someone who has difficulty finding motivation or getting started. 


##### Lowlights

This book could’ve been a blog post. It is pretty long-winded, the summary can be condensed in just 8 sentences, and the fictional approach that the author took to explain his concepts does more harm than good.


##### What Can You Do

All the advice given by the author in this book are pretty solid and effective. The only thing I’d add on top of it is to take it slow, and do one thing at a time, instead of trying to attack the problem of lack of motivation from all angles.


##### Related Books

I remember reading The Monk Who Sold His Ferrari as a teenager and being really impressed by it. Although I retain the gist of it, I’m not sure if that is something I’d recommend to people, but it comes pretty close to this book.


##### Reading Tips

Skip it and read the summary instead.
